Page 1 of4 Claims, Claims, Claims A claim persuades, argues, convinces, proves, or provocatively suggests something to a reader who may or may not initially agree with you. What most non-academics mean by argument is usually a polar opposition or heated debate: I win/you lose; you're a Democrat/l'm a Republican; I'm for the death penalty/you're a bleeding-heart liberal against the death penalty; I'm pro-choice/you're against choice. Though academic arguments can be just as heated and draw on political, social, cultural, or personal positions and experiences, academic claims are different—often more complex, nuanced, specific, and detailed. Most academic argument is bounded by what is considered debatable or up for inquiry within a discipline, acknowledging that some questions are already settled (though that too may end up being debatable). The 'rules' of academic argument exclude the following as support: —Because it is my personal opinion —Because my friends or relatives think so or most people think so —Because it's always been, it's tradition —Because it's obvious —Because it's morally right What a Claim Is VA claim is the main argument of an essay. It is probably the single most important part of an academic paper. The complexity, effectiveness, and quality of the entire paper hinges on the claim. If your claim is boring or obvious, the rest of the paper probably will be too. VA claim defines your paper's goals, direction, scope, and exigence and is supported by evidence, quotations, argumentation, expert opinion, statistics, and telling details. VA claim must be argumentative. When you make a claim, you are arguing for a certain interpretation or understanding of your subject. VA good claim is specific. It makes a focused argument (MTV's popularity is waning because it no longer plays music videos) rather than a general one (MTV sucks). Why Descriptive Thesis Statements are NOT Arguable Claims Following are examples of descriptive thesis statements students write in high school. Each is drawn from the top-scoring AP English Language and Composition papers posted on the College Board website:
it would be good if you can put it on the dropbox or something shareable on the web, so I can pass image url to the service as input